Rlc design overview doc (#1734)
Azure/autorest.typescript: docs/RLC-generation-Design.md

# RLC generation Design

> 

Reviewer: Could you add the highlight about what this spec is about

## Basic Terms

> - **Cadl Files**: cloud service API definition written in [CADL](https://github.com/microsoft/cadl).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Cadl Files**: Service API defined in [CADL](https://github.com/microsoft/cadl).
```

> - **Swagger Files**: REST api specification written in [OpenAPI](https://swagger.io/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Swagger Files**: REST api specification follow the definition in [OpenAPI](https://swagger.io/).
```

> - **CADL Program**: The model we get after CADL compiler has processed the cadl input.

Reviewer: Don't quite understand this, is it the memory model for CADL input?

Author: yes

- **Modelerfour**: The code model we get after autorest core and modelerfour plugin has processed the swagger input.
- **RLCModel**: The model we defined internally which contains all the necessary information we need to build the RLC file content.
- **CADL compiler**: The module that compiles the cadl input and provides a set of APIs to CADL emitter to get the cadl program model.
- **Autorest core & m4 plugin**: The module that takes swagger files as input and output the code model modelerfour.
- **CADL TypeScript emitter**: This module transforms the CADL program into RLCModel.
- **RLC common**: The common part that takes RLCModel as input and build the RLC file content. 
- **Autorest TypeScript plugin**: This module transforms the Modelerfour into RLCModel.

## TypeScript RLC generation Design Overview

In the TypeScript RLC generator, we support generate RLC code from both cadl input and swagger input.

```mermaid
graph TD
A[CADL Files] -->|CADL compiler| B(CADL Program)
B -->|CADL TypeScript emitter| C{RLCModel}
C --> |RLC common| D{RLC File Content}
D --> |CADL TypeScript emitter| E(JS RLC Code)
F(Swager Files) -->|Autorest core & m4 plugin| G(Modelerfour)

> G -->|Autotest TypeScript Plugin| C

Reviewer: Not quite understand the path for 'RLC File Content' => 'JS RLC Code',  why we use different tool for the convert?

Author: Because what we get from rlc-common is just a file content string, we need to use either Autorest host to write the files or cadl emitter host to write the files.

D --> |Autorest TypeScript Plugin| E
```

### CADL RLC generation part

On a high level, the entire Rest Level Client generation process from CADL Input would be:

Cadl Input -> Cadl Compiler -> Cadl Program -> Transform RLCModel -> Call RLC Common library to Generate Code

```mermaid
graph TD
A[CADL Files] -->|CADL compiler| B(CADL Program)
B -->|CADL TypeScript emitter| C{RLCModel}
C --> |RLC common| D(RLC File Content)
D --> |CADL TypeScript emitter| E(JS RLC Code)
```

### Swagger RLC generation part

And the entire Rest Level Client generation process from Swagger Input would be:  
Swagger Input -> Autorest Core & m4 Plugin -> Modelerfour -> Transform RLCModel -> Call RLC Common library to Generate Code

```mermaid
graph TD
C{RLCModel} --> |RLC common| D(RLC File Content)
F(Swager Files) -->|Autorest core & m4 plugin| G(Modelerfour)
G -->|Autotest TypeScript Plugin| C
D --> |Autorest TypeScript Plugin| E(JS RLC code)

> ```

Reviewer: Is there any future work or improvement you could suggest？

Author: I am not sure why we should put future work or improvement work here, I think this design doc is for those customers who are interested in the RLC generation not a design spec for review before implementation.
